

Notes for "Every Page is Page One"
==================================

Author: Mark Baker

Pub. Date: December 3, 2013

The large majority of these words are extracts from Baker, but I
edited freely, to make them coherently readable.  From here on "I" or
"my" will be Baker referring to himself.  -MSSG

Audience
----------------

This book is for technical writers, information architects, content
strategists, and anyone interested in designing information that will
be consumed on the Web or in the context of the Web.



Chapter 1. Introduction
------------------------

People’s behavior on the Web follows a pattern similar to the optimal
foraging patterns of wild animals. The name for this behavior is
information foraging. The key concept in information foraging is
information scent.  This foraging behavior is not exclusive to the
Web, of course.

Readers have become habituated to information snacking.

----------- 1.1. Every page is page one

The consequence of this information snacking behavior is that every
page the reader reads becomes a new page one. When you search for
information on the Web, whether you use a search engine or follow a
link, and you land on one of the billions of pages on the Web, that
page, for you, is page one.

My aim in writing this book is to begin to define a rigor and a
discipline for writing and organizing Every Page is Page One pages.

------------ 1.2. Why do we still write books?

Why, after all this time, do so many tech writers still produce books
and organize help systems as if they were books?

People make decisions based on one of two models: the consequences
model or the identity model.

- Decisions based on the consequences model
are made by looking at what will happen as a result of the decision:
“if I throw this brick through this jeweler’s window, I will get
arrested and go to jail.”

- Decisions based on the identity model are
made by asking what kind of person I am: “although there are no cops
around, I am not the sort of person who throws bricks through
jeweler’s windows.”


We write books because we are the sort of people who write books.

But, even more so than in the past, our readers are not the sort of people who read books.

----------- 1.3. About the book

Structure will be:

- Part I. Content in the context of the Web
  
- Part II. Characteristics of Every Page is Page One Topics
  
- Part III. Writing Every Page is Page Topics


Chapter 2. Include it all. Filter it afterward
------------------------------------------------

When readers forage the Web, rather than picking up a book, they are
expressing a preference to “Include it all. Filter it afterward.”

-------- 2.1. Just Google it

People prefer to search the Web because it lets them find more content
in less time.

-------- 2.2. The long tail

All kinds of information gets put on the Web that would never find its
way into a book.  Because it can, and *some* people will find it
useful.

--------- 2.3. Authority and experience

One of the ways the Web changes how we think about knowledge and
information is that it give us access to people whose expertise comes
from experience as well as those with credentials.

People prefer to search the Web because it gives them access to
experience as well as credentials.

--------- 2.4. Aggregation and curation

The Web is not just an environment for searching, it is also an
environment in which you can aggregate and curate content and tailor
collections of content for you own needs.

--------- 2.5. Filter it afterward

The Web is full of filters, and most of us spend most of our time on
the Web creating and using those filters.

Chapter 3. The Distributed Nature of Content on the Web
--------------------------------------------------------

In many cases, in fact, we don’t use websites at all. What we actually use are:

- The Web
  
- Specific web pages

--------- 3.1. How we use the Web

If we find a particularly useful page, we bookmark the page, not the
website. If we want to share with friends, we share the page, not the
website.

----------  3.2. Dynamic semantic clustering


When you do a search or apply a filter to the Web, you get a set of
results that is built dynamically around the semantics of the filter
you applied, clustering pages related to your search terms or
filter. We can call this process dynamic semantic clustering.


Chapter 4. Information Architecture Top Down
---------------------------------------------

There are essentially two ways you can organize anything: top down and
bottom up. In the book world, we organized everything top down, and
for the most part we have brought that model to the Web.

But does the top-down model work on the Web?

--------- 4.1. Book navigation

Traditional book organization is either linear or hierarchical.

----------- 4.2. The trouble with TOCs

If you expand out all levels of the table of contents, the information
starts to look really complex. Users may feel intimidated and
overwhelmed about where to even begin. It’s too much to learn.

------------ 4.3. Curriculum versus classification

Where the subject matter itself is naturally hierarchical,
hierarchical organization works well.

----------- 4.4. The limits of hierarchies

But what if the subject matter is not naturally hierarchical?

---------- 4.5. The cultural bias toward hierarchies

We are culturally imprinted to organize using hierarchies. We use
hierarchies to organize all kinds of things that are not hierarchical
by nature.

In the physical world, putting something next to one thing means
moving it further from another thing. In the digital world, you can
put something near any number of other things in any number of
dimensions.  We call these 'axes' of relatedness.

Our experience of organizing things in the real world has conditioned
us to think that the compromises the physical world imposes are
inevitable and even natural.

But they're not.

---------- 4.6. The rise of the Frankenbooks

'Bursting' books onto webpages doesn't work so well.

Here’s the hard truth: hierarchies become less logical and more
arbitrary the larger they become. Look at any large TOC and
arbitrariness, not logic, is the prevailing feature. Hierarchies
simply do not scale.

---------- 4.7. Faceted navigation

In faceted navigation you choose a value from column A and a value
from column B, and the system shows you the items that match both
selections. You can then select something from column C to narrow the
result even further.

Faceted navigation systems work interactively. Rather than making all
your selections at once, you can start with a simple search on one
factor. The system then shows you a list of results and populates the
other selection fields only with the values from items that match the
first query.

---------- 4.8. The limits of classification

The problem with classification as a principle of organization is that
it only works when readers are familiar with the classification
scheme, and most of the time they aren’t.

---------- 4.9. Where top-down works

When does top-down navigation work and when doesn’t it?

- It works when users want a curriculum.

- It works when you can provide a classification scheme that makes
  intuitive sense to the reader, ideally one where the reader has
  already classified the query before starting.
  

- It works when the classification scheme, natural or not, has been
  made canonical by a discipline or trade, has become part of the
  language of practitioners, and the audience consists entirely of
  fellow practitioners.  


Chapter 5. Information Architecture Bottom Up
-----------------------------------------

Paper encyclopedias have to be ordered alphabetically or topically,
but ask how Wikipedia is ordered, and the question proves to be
absurd.

Wikipedia isn’t ordered either topically or alphabetically. It is not
ordered at all. It is connected.

------ 5.1.  A web of subject affinities

Links can help enormously. Following a link is less disruptive than
doing a search and creates less cognitive overhead. As long as the
link is to a useful resource, it makes life easier for your
readers. Links also help keep readers inside your content set, as
opposed to letting them wander off across the Web (which they are free
to do even if your content isn’t on the Web).

--- Manicouagan Crater article example:

The contributing authors have created a good context-setting opening
paragraph with strong links along the lines of subject affinity.

The footer is confined to those aspects of the taxonomy that are
related to the subject affinities of the article itself. This turns
the article into a hub of its immediate area in its subject space, the
crossroads of a semantic cluster.


------- 5.2. Irregular subject affinities [?]

Any two-dimensional presentation of organizational relationships (on
paper or on a screen) will, by necessity, flatten them.

- Mercator projection

- Perspective Drawing

- Isomorphic Drawing

In text and online, we have built a civilization and a science on the
flattening of information.  But these restrictions belong to an age in
which the predominant tool for the extension and sharing of our
intellect was paper.

 Computers and, perhaps more importantly, computer networks, are not
 dimensionally restricted in the way paper is. They allow us to
 represent and explore worlds and problems in multiple dimensions. We
 can represent a multidimensional world in the computer’s memory and
 create algorithms to represent that world without distortion. We no
 longer have to flatten to represent. We no longer have to flatten to
 understand.

The imprecision inherent in tagging is about accepting the natural
messiness of the world.

We now have the ability to allow readers to rotate their view and,
through linking, traverse the information space along multiple axes.


---------- 5.6.  Broader, deeper, more dynamic

If the Web is a collection of filters, the navigational schema of your
website is just one more filter out of the many filters that may
return (or reject) individual pages of your content. It is likely that
visitors reach your pages (not your site) using some filter other than
your site’s top-down navigation. Consequently, your ability to
influence, help, and retain visitors begins on that page, and starting
from that page, their navigation will be bottom up.

We need to break away from the top-down organizational schema of the
book world and learn to adopt, create, and manage a bottom-up
organizational schema that supports an information collection as vast,
vibrant, and fluid as the Web.

----------- 5.7. Should we abandon top-down navigation?

No -- some visitors will arrive at your home page and attempt to
navigate your site. You need to accommodate these visitors, too.

One of the great things about bottom-up navigation is that, because it
is distributed, and always local in the context of any regular page,
it is also largely unobtrusive and should work well within any
top-down framework.

In the presence of good bottom-up navigation, top-down navigation does
not have to be comprehensive to be effective. You can avoid the scary
monster TOC and still provide effective access to all of your content.

Every Page is Page One is not about pitting one means of navigation
against another.  You just need to write that page as if it were page
one.

------------- 5.8. The role of lists

In Section 4.3, “Curriculum versus classification” we saw that most
books attempt to prescribe a curriculum for readers, whereas an EPPO
topic generally assumes readers will construct the curriculum.

Lists are common on the Web and can be considered a type of Every Page
is Page One topic.  A list is open ended.  Lists can provide a
connective layer between higher- and lower-level topics.


Chapter 6. What is a Topic?
-----------------------------------------

The challenge for writers is to produce effective Every Page is Page
One topics with a strong information scent.

For technical communicators 'topic' refers to a small independent piece
of information on a single subject.

---------- 6.1. Building-block topics


 A topic is to a document what a subatomic particle (such as an
 electron) is to matter. It is the basic component in a document. Each
 topic can and must stand alone.

Combinations of topics are like atoms. They form a section of a
document containing a group of related topics. This corresponds to a
book within an online help TOC, or a chapter within a book.

Groups of sections are like groups of atoms, or molecules, for
example, a water molecule. These correspond to an entire document.

Groups of documents form a library, which is like the various
molecules combined together to form the complex matter,

Authors use building-block topics to assemble larger units of
content. Readers should rarely see a building-block topic in
isolation.  There are two ways to approach this: context-dependent and
context-free:

Context-dependent building-block topics must be preceded by a lead-in
topic and followed by a lead-out topic.

The other approach is to create context-free building-block
topics. You can use context-free building-block topics in many
different places. You still need to provide some context, but you
don’t need to use a specific lead in and lead out.


---------- 6.2. Presentational topics

A presentational topic is designed to be a unit of presentation. That
is, it is intended to be the unit a reader receives.

Some presentational topics are meant to be read, or at least
navigated, in a particular order or hierarchy, which they depend on
for some or all of their context.

------------ 6.3. Every Page is Page One topics

An Every Page is Page One topic is designed to establish its own
context and to function independently. This does not mean that Every
Page is Page One topics cannot belong to collections, but those
collections will tend to be organized bottom up rather than top down.

It is not unusual to find help systems today that are a mix of Every
Page is Page One topics, hierarchically dependent presentational
topics, and even building-block topics presented on their own.

------------- 6.4. Economics and the evolution of topics

At one time, technical communicators wrote user guides as books and
help systems as collections of presentational topics. Unfortunately,
cost pressures made this approach unaffordable for many, and writers
began using tools that created a help system by bursting the user
guide at section boundaries.

Under these circumstances, it was perhaps inevitable that the word
topic would come to mean a chunk of a book (though such a topic is
usually neither a good building-block topic nor a good presentational
topic).

------------ 6.5. DITA and Information Mapping

DITA [OASIS DITA TC] cemented this use of topic in the tech pubs
lexicon. DITA was influenced by Information Mapping, borrowing the
idea that a document is a map connecting different types of content
objects.

----------- 6.6. Topics and the Web

While all this was going on in the technical communication world, the
Web was becoming the largest collection of Every Page is Page One
topics anywhere.

The Every Page is Page One topic is the natural and dominant form of
topic on the Web.

What was almost entirely missing from the mass of topic-based tech
comm that grew up on the Web was any contribution from anyone with the
job title Technical Writer.

Today, therefore, there is considerable movement of professional tech
comm into writing for the Web as a hypertext medium.

------------ 6.7. Every page is still page one even if the reader reads several

Saying that every page is page one is not saying that the page is the
first page the reader has read today, nor that the reader will only
read one page to complete one task. What it means is that every time a
reader comes to a new topic, that topic operates as a new page one,
just as when a reader puts down one book and picks up another, the
first page of that new book is a new page one.

------------ 6.8. Characteristics of EPPO topics

The following chapters will detail the principal characteristics of
Every Page is Page One topics:

-Self-contained

-Specific and limited purpose

-Conform to type

-Establish context

-Assume the reader is qualified: An EPPO topic assumes readers are
 qualified to complete the specific and limited purpose of a topic

-Stay on one level

-Link richly


------------ Chapter 7. EPPO Topics are Self-contained

There are several parts to recipes: a title, introduction, picture,
list of ingredients, directions, number served, and notes.

To function alone, the recipe needs all its parts. To be certain, some
of the parts can be considered optional. The recipe does not need the
picture to function, any more than your car needs heated seats to
function. But the optional pieces, like the picture and the
introduction, make the function more pleasant.

Whether a building-block approach is the best way to manage your
content is outside the scope of this book.  However, there’s no
question that presenting the introduction, ingredients, and
instructions separately is not useful to the reader. If you are going
to manage those elements separately, for whatever purpose, you need to
bring them back together before you present them to the reader.

------------ 7.1. Self-contained, not all alone

To say that a topic is self-contained is to say that it is not
designed to work only as part of some larger information product. But
neither is a topic expected to work in a complete information vacuum.

A recipe does not depend on any one specific topic to ensure that the
reader can learn to cook pasta. It relies on the whole information
environment in which cooking occurs. Cooking is now an activity that
takes place in the context of the Web.

Therefore a topic is self-contained not because it is entirely
self-sufficient, but because it exists in a rich information
environment that readers can call on to further their understanding.

------------ 7.2. The information scent of self-contained topics

Good information scent improves findability. Making sure your topics
are self-contained will help give them the right scent.

There is nothing worse then following the scent of pizza into the
lunch room only to find nothing left but crust. The scent of pizza
hangs about the place. It even says pizza on the box, but there is no
pizza here. Just crust. You leave frustrated and hungry (!!)

A good EPPO topic that is self-contained represents a complete meal
for a hungry information seeker.

Chapter 8. EPPO Topics have a Specific and Limited Purpose
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We can only determine if a topic is self-contained if we know what
purpose it is meant to fulfill. A topic needs a specific purpose.

------------  8.1. The scope of a topic

What is a good question? Tom suggests that it is “a relevant question
within the user’s business scenario.” The user’s business scenario is
the purpose that the user is attempting to achieve.

You will find many cases where the questioner has asked a vague and
general question, or a highly specific but uncontextualized question,
and one or more respondents have written back saying something such as
“What are you trying to do?” Before providing an answer, they need to
understand the questioner’s purpose. A question can only be answered
properly in the context of a specific purpose.

------------ 8.2. Task-based writing

Writing a topic to serve a purpose for the reader is task-based
writing. Task-based writing is commonly defined by contrasting it to
feature-based writing: “Describe the user’s task, not the product’s
features.”

In short, you can’t talk about the user’s task without talking about
the user’s tools.

This is one reason documenting a new tool is such a challenge. Our
tools shape our understanding of our tasks to such a degree that it is
difficult to separate a task from the tool we currently use to
accomplish that task.

One of the hardest things about moving technical writers from desktop
publishing to structured writing is persuading them to give up
responsibility for how the final output looks. Writers will keep
looking for ways to specify layout, even in markup languages
specifically designed to remove layout concerns. They understand their
jobs in terms of the responsibilities their old tools imposed on them.

But even as tools change, users do not separate their purpose from
their tools.

------------ 8.3. Derived purpose

Just as readers do not always express their queries in terms of their
original motive, neither do they always express them in terms of their
overall purpose. In many cases they express their queries in terms of
what we might call a derived purpose.

Therefore, purpose cannot be divorced from features. What
distinguishes task-orientation from feature-orientation in
documentation is not what you call things, but what you choose to say
about them.

------------ 8.4. Defining the purpose of a topic [?]

In Example 7.1, “Tarragon Mac and Cheese Recipe” the specific and
limited purpose is to show an experienced cook how to prepare Tarragon
Mac and Cheese.

Example 8.1, “Outline of Using Themes for WordPress Codex” is the
outline of the topic “Using Themes from the WordPress Codex.”

------------ 8.5. Topic purpose vs. user purpose

The purpose of a topic is to serve the purpose of a reader. However,
that does not mean that a single topic is a personalized expression
of a particular individual reader’s entire purpose.

That is, your topics will need to work more like a bus service than a
taxi service. They need to pick your readers up at a logical starting
place and drop them off at a logical ending place, but they don’t need
to go point-to-point from each reader’s home to each specific
destination.

A well-designed information set is like a well-designed transportation
system, it allows passengers to travel individual itineraries along
shared routes.


------------ 8.6. Purpose and topic size

The key to finding the right size for an EPPO topic is to define the
purpose correctly and then write a topic that fulfills that purpose. A
focus on purpose forces you to scale each topic to a real need, giving
the reader not only the action, but the reason and context for acting.

------------ 8.7. Decision support and the reader’s purpose

Providing the reason and context for acting is really another way of
saying, “provide support for decision making.” One of the most
important tools of modern business is the decision support
system. Such systems can be complex, but at their heart, they simply
provide people with the information they need to make decisions.

In technical communication, we don’t talk much about decision support;
we talk about task support. We frame our jobs as providing the
information people need to complete their tasks. Unfortunately, the
information we provide is often simply a procedure for operating a
machine.

A task is not a procedure (a theme I’ll return to in Chapter
9, EPPO Topics Conform to a Type). In many cases, the information
people need to complete their tasks is not information on how to
operate machines, but information to support their decision
making. It’s not “how do I push the button,” but “when and why should
I push the button and what happens if I do.”

The real heart of technical instruction doesn’t lie in the
step-by-step how-to information. It lies in understanding concepts and
how they work together to produce an end. This focus on the conceptual
interplay of the parts should drive the technical writing experience,
both from a reader and writer’s point of view. Procedures are more
like footnotes. As soon as the user understands the why and the what
and the who and the where, the how is merely a mundane detail.

I’m not saying that you never need to document the physical procedure.
the details of command syntax have to be clearly documented. The same
thing holds for other forms of documentation, too. But simply
documenting procedures is never enough. Supporting the decisions users
need to make, large and small, is the tough part.


Letting users know what decisions they must make, making them aware of
the consequences, and, as far as possible, leading them to resources
and references that will assist them in deciding what to do. I’m
talking about answering questions like:

- Where are the valid values for this field listed?
- What do each of the field values mean?
- How will the system change as a result of this setting?
- Does this setting form part of a collection of settings that are used to achieve an overall objective for the system.
- What are the side effects of setting a particular value? Are there trade-offs on performance, access, or security as a result of changing this setting?
- Should this setting match a value set elsewhere in the system? If so, which value, and which is the master and which is the slave?
- Are there larger questions to consider before choosing the value for this setting?
- Will the system validate this setting? How will I know if I have the right setting?
- Does my choice for this setting depend on what other users have done, and, if so, what questions do I need to ask them before I change this setting?
- Can I change this setting later, or will there be irrevocable consequences?
- Could this setting result in loss of data or change how data is processed?
- Who else might be affected by this setting, and what do I need to tell them so they can make good decisions about their own parts of the system?
- How is this setting affected by optional components?

A good Every Page is Page One task topic should address these kinds of
questions and should link richly to ancillary material the reader may
need to help answer these questions. Only when the planning and
decision-making aspects of the user’s task have be thoroughly covered
should the topic proceed to the physical procedure for executing the
decisions the user has made.

------------ 8.8. Purpose and findability

Keeping a topic to a single purpose is a huge aid to
findability. People usually have a specific and limited purpose when
they search.

When people search the Web, they are looking for content that meets
their specific and limited purpose. A good EPPO topic that meets that
specific and limited purpose will give them what they want. And
because it is specifically written to that specific and limited
purpose, it will smell like what they are looking for. And because it
does what it claims to do, it will be filtered in by search engines
and social curators.


Chapter 9. EPPO Topics Conform to a Type
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A topic type is a plan or a prescription for a topic. It tells the
writer how the topic should be written and the reader how it should be
read. A topic type defines the content, order, and form of a topic.

Good Every Page is Page One topics frequently share a clear topic type
with other topics that have a similar purpose.

Conforming to a type is the principal way in which we ensure that an
EPPO topic meets its specific and limited purpose. But more than that,
conformance to a type helps the content smell right.

A recipe or an API reference could be written to contain the same
information without following the conventions for its type, but then
it would not look or smell like a recipe or an API reference. Readers
might arrive at the topic and not recognize that it contains the
information they want, simply because it doesn’t look like what they
expected.

Topic type is determined by the information needed to fulfill a
purpose, not by its visual appearance. A visual layout that reflects
the type usually helps the reader, but it is the type that is the
master and the layout the slave, not the other way round.

Many other topics in Wikipedia have similarly well-defined topic
types: vehicles, languages, flora, fauna, novels, and on and
on. Simply browsing Wikipedia is an effective short course on topic
typing. Once again, no standards committee established these topic
types. Rather, they are the result of thousands of contributors
gradually building up topics, filling in gaps, and refactoring and
refining the structure.

When it comes to topics, adherence to a type is the norm, not the
exception. Find a topic that does not seem to have a type or does not
conform to the common structure of topics with a similar purpose, and
you will almost always discover that that topic has strayed from its
purpose or never had a well-defined purpose.


------------ 9.2. Discovering and defining topic types

Topic types are a reflection and a formalization of the specific and
limited purpose of topics. Therefore, defining explicit topic types
begins by exploring what is needed to fulfill the topic’s purpose.

Because topic types fall naturally out of the specific and limited
purpose of a topic, you might think your topics will naturally fall
into types without any attempt to explicitly think about the topic
type. Unfortunately, it’s not that easy.

Creating topic types is a two-part effort of discovering existing
topic types and then using your discoveries to define the topic types
you need. Once you do that, you will want to document your topic types
and set up your authoring environment to support them. The best way to
do that is through structured writing (Ch. 18).

---- 9.2.1. Discovering topic types [?]

One of the most effective ways to discover topic types is by looking
at existing topics designed to serve the same purpose. You can look on
the Web, in your competitor’s documentation, and in your own existing
documentation. Make a collection of diverse sources and make lists of
the repeating fields and sections that you find in each sample.

Remember when you do this, you are looking for the limited set of
specific pieces of information required to meet the user need this
topic is designed to fulfill.


---- 9.2.2. Defining topic types

Once you have done your research, it is time to create your topic
definition. Now is the time to get specific.

An API reference doesn’t just contain a line of code. It contains a
function signature, and that function signature has a particular
format that all programmers understand:

  [return type]? [function name] [[parameter name] [parameter type]]…

Even when topics naturally conform to a type, individual authors may
implement that type with a different organization and different
inclusions and exclusions. For a systematic authoring project, you
need create a stricter definition of each topic type to ensure
consistency and completeness.

What is most important is to make sure you capture the information a
topic needs to have to serve its purpose.

To do this, you need to start with the specific and limited purpose
you have defined for each topic type. What information must each topic
include to achieve its specific and limited purpose? What information
does a user need?

Stay focused on the specific and limited purpose. It is easy to start
imagining all kinds of things a hypothetical user might want to
know. By all means keep a list of these things, because they may be
clues to other topic types you need, but don’t let them creep into
your topic type definition.


---- 9.2.3. Handling optional material

You can have optional parts in your topic type, but you should only
include them if they are sufficiently related to the topic’s purpose.

---- 9.2.4. Serving the commercial purpose

Ultimately, every part of a topic type definition needs to serve
either the reader, the publisher, or (preferably) both.

------------ 9.3. Concept, task, and reference reconsidered

It has become an axiom of technical communications in the last few
years that all content falls into one of three types: concept, task,
or reference. However, EPPO topic types are more specific and varied
than this simple trio.

------ 9.3.1. The origins of concept, task, and reference

The concept, task, reference trio originates with DITA’s adoption of
these three types,

The problem is that, in the popular conception, the words concept,
task, and reference have been reduced to shapes.

We have somehow gone from the laudable idea that users want
information that helps them perform a specific task (as opposed to
information that simply described the machine) to presenting single
procedures by themselves.

This is certainly not the approach advocated in Information Mapping.  

If there is a problem with DITA, it is not that it lacks a theory of
information design, but rather that many people believe that DITA’s
concept/task/reference trio is a theory of information design.

The result is that when you talk about topic types today, people’s
minds go at once to the DITA trio. For EPPO, that’s a problem because
a typical EPPO topic has a much more specific type definition, which
may contain several different types of information blocks. It is
important, therefore, to spend some time looking at why the trio of
concept/task/reference, though useful for some purposes, is not
sufficient either as a set of topic types or as a principle of
information design.


------ 9.3.2. A task is not a procedure [?]

------9.3.3. A reference is more than a topic [?]

------ 9.3.4. Everything else is not a concept

There are plenty of topic types that are not, by any reasonable
definition, either tasks or references, nor are they big-C
concepts. And they aren’t generic either. An example from my
background writing about programming languages and operating systems
is the annotated code-sample topic.

Programmers want two things above all else in a documentation set: a
thorough API reference and working code samples.

There are many topic types that don’t fall into the task or reference
categories, but only one qualifies as a true concept. Concept is not
the right word to describe “everything else.” And it isn’t useful to
single out tasks and references as particular types and then assign
everything else to a single category, however you name that
category. To do so is akin to dividing the animal kingdom into cats,
dogs, and everything else.

This is certainly not the approach advocated in Information Mapping.  [?]


Chapter 10. EPPO Topics Establish their Context
------------------------

Because readers may come from anywhere, and often arrive at a topic
through an imprecise mechanism such as a Google search, a topic should
clearly establish its context in the subject domain. As noted in
Chapter 6, What is a Topic?, the scent of information is key to the
information forager finding your content. Properly establishing the
context of your topic in the real world is a key part of making it
smell right.

If you have ever landed in the middle of a help system from a search
and found that you have no idea where you are, you have experienced
the lack of context that so many topics exhibit.

------------ 10.1. Establishing context

**A self-contained topic must establish its context, and readers must be able to come to it from anywhere and know where they have arrived. Most Every Page is Page One topics orient themselves quickly. A lead paragraph of a sentence or two often suffices to set the scene for what is to come.**

Putting a topic in context means locating the subject of the topic in
the real world. Placing an Up to TOC link on a topic does not place
that topic in context.

There are many mechanisms you can use to establish context. A good
title is a great start. A succinct, context-setting first paragraph,
as in Figure 10.2, “Context-setting example”, is also important.

**Another way to establish context is to use a graphic.**

Metadata is yet another mechanism for establishing context. A good
example of this the entry for the Blue-Footed Booby from All About
Birds (see Figure 10.4, “Blue-Footed Booby”). The place of the
Blue-Footed Booby in the Linnaean taxonomy of animals is shown as part
of the frame around the content.

------------ 10.2. Context and the imprecision of search

When you find documentation on the Web, search will sometimes land you
in the documentation for a different version of a product than the
version you own. There are two problems here. First, in burst-book
content, an individual page may not identify which version of the
product it applies to. Secondly, if you land on a page for the wrong
version, there may be no convenient way to get to the equivalent page
for the right version.

Atlassian handles this very well in the Confluence documentation.  If
you hit a page that is not for the current version, you get a banner
at the top of the page advising you of this and a link to the same
page in the current documentation

The Wikipedia article about Ottawa (Figure 10.3, “Wikipedia article on
Ottawa”) has another nice context-setting feature that I think should
be imitated in every large content set. If a word has more than one
meaning within the content set (in this case, if there is more than
one item in the encyclopedia with the name Ottawa), then there is a
disambiguation line above the content that states which article this
one is and offers a link to a list of the other articles on this
subject.

This highlights a problem Google and other search engines have. They
always return the most popular results. After all, that’s what they
are designed to do. However, this means that less common subjects that
happen to share terminology with more common subjects get pushed far
down in the search results. You need significant search skills to
compose a search string to get the results you need. But with
Wikipedia, you don’t need those skills, because you can browse the
more obscure topics right at the top of the most popular topic. This
is the sort of thing we should all be doing.


Chapter 11. EPPO Topics Assume the Reader is Qualified
------------------------------------------------

Authors tend to write books assuming they will be read straight
through by readers with a wide variety of backgrounds and skills.

This approach is not appropriate for Every Page is Page One topics,
and it violates many of the other properties of EPPO topics, such as
having a specific and limited purpose, staying on one level, and
conforming to a type. An EPPO topic should be written for a qualified
reader.

Of course, when it comes to technical content, the Web does not always
provide an answer. Some things may be unique to your product, in which
case your doc set needs to provide them. But the same principle
applies. Individual topics should make appropriate assumptions about
the qualifications of the reader. If there is a possibility that not
all your readers will be qualified, you should provide the topics they
will need to qualify themselves. Then you should make sure readers can
find them.

When you write prerequisite topics for users who are not qualified to
read your initial topic, those topics should also be Every Page is
Page One topics, and they should assume that their readers are
qualified to read them. And if you need another set of topics to
prepare the readers to read these topics, create them as well.

The How to Sweat Vegetables topic serves a reader’s derived
purpose. Sweating vegetables will never be a reader’s main
purpose. However, when a reader needs to sweat vegetables for any
recipe, this topic can serve that derived purpose. Serving readers’
derived purposes is a major part of what technical communicators
should be doing.

------------ 11.1. Reader dependencies vs. subject dependencies [?]

An EPPO topic has to assume the reader is qualified and refrain from
trying to meet reader dependencies for readers who are not. Otherwise
the topic will cease to be manageable for qualified readers.

When we say a topic is self-contained, we mean that it is free of
subject dependencies. We do not mean, and cannot reasonably demand,
that it is free of reader dependencies.  Most readers will have
dependencies. To meet those dependencies, the reader is sometimes
going to need to consult other topics. To assist them, a good EPPO
topic links richly to ancillary topics, something I will discuss in
Chapter 13, EPPO Topics Link Richly.

To be considered self-contained, a topic must meet the reader’s
reasonable expectation of a topic of this sort. It does not have to
satisfy all the reader’s personal dependencies.

------------ 11.2. Determining the qualified reader

Determining the qualified reader is not an arbitrary or subjective
process. It follows from the specific and limited purpose of the
topic. A qualified reader is a reader who knows everything needed to
perform the specific and limited purpose of the topic except the
specifics of the case that the topic covers.

The appropriate level of qualification for a topic is probably best
assessed at the level of someone who does this task regularly.

------------ 11.3. Choosing the level of understanding

When you select an audience for your topic you are not just selecting
the vocabulary, you’re also making assumptions about the level of
interest and the degree of extrapolation that audience is capable
of. If you are writing a general interest topic on the Web, that
decision may be more or less arbitrary. But if you are writing for a
technical audience, these assumptions aren’t arbitrary, they are
directly related to the task. The task tells you the level of interest
and the level of extrapolation expected, which in turn tells you who
normally does this job, what they know, and what they expect to be
able to do with the information you give them.

Of course, individual users differ greatly in their levels of
technical knowledge and interest. Unless you can address each
individual, you have to write for an aggregate level of
interest. Generally speaking, you want to aim for a level of knowledge
that will enable the reader to accomplish a new task or attain a
higher level of productivity with an existing task. In the end, you
should enable action and not accommodate infinite varieties of
curiosity. Focus on the levels of knowledge required to accomplish
concrete tasks.

------------ 11.4. Avoid arbitrary labels

The term novice is problematic for designers of training. Its use
exposes a technocratic ideology of learning that is insulting. Adult
learners can never be thought of as novices. They are experts, though
perhaps in domains other than the one in which they are training.

Each reader will come to the topic with a different set of
qualifications. A good EPPO topic set allows each reader to choose a
unique path based on his or her information needs. Artificially
defined levels like novice, intermediate, and expert don’t help
readers create a unique path.

If your workplace has well-defined roles with separate
responsibilities, then it can make sense to use those roles to define
the qualified user for each topic or topic type. But artificial or
poorly defined classifications will only confuse and frustrate users.


------------ 11.5. Qualification and findability

The way you reach your readers is to write topics on subjects they are
interested in and assume your readers are qualified. That is the only
way you will capture their attention. Then, provide a clear context
statement in each topic. This should enough to signal unqualified
readers that they need more background. If you then provide links to
prerequisite material, your readers can get to the information they
need to become qualified.


Chapter 12. EPPO Topics Stay on One Level [?]
----------------------------------------------

There are multiple levels to every subject: levels of detail; levels
of abstraction; strategic, tactical, and operational levels of
interest; even subject matter of interest to different levels of an
organization or pertaining to different layers of a multi-layered
systems or the different roles that operate on those layers. Most
people need information on more than one level in order to complete
all of their tasks, or a single complex task. However, it is
preferable for a topic to stick to one level.

Changes of level are a necessary part of any course of study. As you
study a subject, you sometimes need to dive down into the details in
order to get a practical illustration of a general principle. When you
are working on some detail, you sometimes need to understand a more
general principle that explains why the detail works the way it does

'If they wanted cow, they would have searched for cow.'

The decision about when to change levels, therefore, is best left to the individual.



------------ 12.1. Books change levels at the author’s fiat

Most books don’t stay on one level. In books, this one included,
it is the author who decides when to present the big picture and when
to delve into details.

This is a necessary consequence of the linear structure of a
book. Most books are designed to be read in a particular order, and
that means the book will change levels when and where the author
chooses.

Readers, trying to get their work done, seldom have the patience or
subservience to subject themselves to the author’s curriculum, however
well planned it may be. And today they are more free than ever to take
command of the curriculum for themselves.

One of the interesting things about the Wikipedia process is that an
article may not meet all the EPPO criteria all the time, but, through
the refactoring process, most articles take on EPPO characteristics
with remarkable consistency.

Writing on one level is not an artificial discipline. It is what
writers naturally do when they view their work as an independent
topic. The challenge for technical communicators, especially those who
have spent a career writing books, is to think of their project as a
set of independent topics.

 
------------ 12.2. Keeping topics on one level

Keeping a topic on one level can be a particular challenge for writers
used to creating books. The key to creating topics that stay on one
level is to keep in mind the following characteristics of Every Page
is Page One topics, which should be familiar by now.

- Self-contained: If your topic starts to feel like a car with a
  mattress strapped to the roof, that is a good sign that you are
  changing levels, and it’s time to create a new topic.

- Specific and limited purpose: Sometimes it is necessary to
  discipline yourself by writing down the limits you put on each topic
  type.

- Conform to type: On the other hand, if you find your topic starting
  to change levels, and the topic type is not pushing back, you
  probably need to tighten your topic type definition to keep other
  topics from straying away from their proper level.

- Establish context: The context of the topic orients readers, giving
  them a sense of whether or not they are qualified.

- Assume qualified: an EPPO topic assumes that the reader is
  appropriately qualified to complete the specific and limited
  purpose. If you are not sure that all readers will be qualified to
  understand a point, record it in a list of prospective topics
  (preferably a centrally maintained one).
    
Capturing the possible qualification deficit is important because it
is difficult to anticipate all the qualification deficits readers may
face. When you discover one, always write it down and share it with
the rest of your team.

Don’t handle the deficit yourself by changing levels in your current
topic. Not only does that distort the topic, it means that the
information is lost to the rest of the team. A topic that might serve
many purposes besides supporting your topic may never get created.

This is not to say that changing levels is wrong when you design a
book or a chapter. In many respects changing levels works well when a
book is read in the order the author intended (as I am sure you are
diligently reading this book). However, it doesn’t work in EPPO
topics. Topics and chapters are fundamentally different beasts, and
you cannot make good topics by chopping up books.

Chapter 13. EPPO Topics Link Richly
--------------------------------------------------
	
Links are the visible manifestation of the author giving up any claim
to completeness or even sufficiency; links invite the reader to browse
the network in which the work is enmeshed, an acknowledgement that
thinking is something that we do together .  Linking is surprisingly
controversial in technical communication and content strategy.

It is probably true that linking will lead people away from the
content they are reading if that content is not very nutritious. The
question is, should we care?

We have always known, of course, that users seldom sit down and read our manuals as they were designed to be read.

An Every Page is Page One information design, on the other hand, does
not start from the premise that the goal is to stop the user from
wandering. Rather, it starts by acknowledging that this is how users
behave and recognizing that, based on the limits of knowledge and the
urgency of their tasks, information foraging really is the optimal
information seeking behavior for most people most of the
time. However, even if you don’t agree that information foraging is
optimal, it is still how users behave. We can’t beat it. We’ve tried
every trick in the book to no avail. It’s time that we started to
facilitate it instead.

Every Page is Page One information design is built around two
propositions:

- 1) the way to keep readers is to provide the content
they need, and

- 2) if readers want to move to content that better meets
their needs, we should help them get there. That means linking richly.

From the author’s point of view, links serve to keep readers in your
content. A foraging reader is more likely to move to a new patch when
it’s easy to get there. By providing links, you can lead readers to
other information patches you own, reducing the temptation for them to
move to a competitor’s content.


------------ 13.1. Links and the democratization of knowledge

The Web democratizes information both by making information easy to
get and by making obscure information easier to decode and burrow your
way into. Some may despair at this, preferring a world in which
expertise is left to the experts and dilettantes are left in the
cold. Much as been written on the virtues or vices of this
development. The debate is outside the scope of this book, but
there is no question that links are the great democratizing elements
of the Web.

------------ 13.2. Linking and findability

Readers are much more successful at finding content using links than using a local site search.
 	
Overall, users found the correct answer in 42% of the tests. When they
used an on-site search engine (we did not study Internet search
engines), their success rate was only 30%. In tasks where they used
only links, however, users succeeded 53% of the time. Testing
data suggests that designers would have more success by focusing
instead on creating effective links.

In particular, there are two important reasons why your context-setting material should be rich with links:

First, readers are most likely to discover that they lack
qualifications while they are reading your context-setting material.

Second, search, and other methods of finding content, can be
imprecise, because of both the limits of search engine technology and
the limits of readers’ skills in framing search terms. This
imprecision may land readers on your topic when they really wanted a
related topic. Linking to contextually near topics gives readers the
means to travel the last mile to the content they really need.

Links should help readers follow the scent of information and navigate
the lines of subject affinity between topics.


Part III. Writing Every Page is Page One Topics
--------------------------- 

How do I go about writing Every Page is Page One topics, and how do I
cover a large subject with only topics?


Chapter 14. Writing Every Page is Page One Topics
------------------------

The Every Page is Page One topic is not a new invention. As the
examples in the previous chapters have demonstrated, Every Page is
Page One topics can be found all over the Web. Nor are EPPO topics
unique to the Web. Essays and articles in journals and magazine have
followed the Every Page is Page One format for centuries. The
difference today is the ease with which readers working in the context
of the Web can move around from one piece of content to another.

Whether you are delivering your technical content on the Web today,
tomorrow, or never plan to, your readers are reading in the context of
the Web, and you will serve them best by writing EPPO topics.

There is nothing new about writing EPPO topics. It is something most
skilled writers do naturally if they are writing a single article or
contributing an entry to Wikipedia. What writers often find more
difficult is to create a set of EPPO topics to cover a broad piece of
subject matter such as the documentation for a major product.

------------ 14.1. Textbooks vs. user assistance [?]

The textbook model assumes readers want to learn about a subject, and
that if they are going to act on what they have learned, they will do
so afterwards. The user assistance model assumes readers are working,
have hit a snag, and need immediate aid. It assumes that readers will
plunge into the work, as far as working conditions allow them to, and
use any resource they can find to get moving forward again.

The move to Every Page is Page One, and thus to a user-assistance
style of writing, does not mean abandoning the attempt to educate the
user. If anything, it means moving to a style that has proven to be
more effective in educating people.

Interestingly, it is been found that even those people who believed that
they were systematic learners turned out not to be.

This was in the 1980s, before most people had seen any
kind of interactive information system, let alone the Web.

This stems from the fact that readers' current picture of the world is
more real to them than anything they are reading, and it takes real
world experience to shift that picture. As Carroll wrote (emphasis
his):

The problem is not that people cannot follow simple steps; it is that
they do not. People are thrown into action they can understand only
through the effectiveness of their actions in the world. People are
situated in a world more real to them than a series of steps a world
that provides rich context and convention for everything they
do. People are always already trying things out, thinking things
through, trying to relate what they already know to what is going on,
recovering from errors. In a word, they are too busy learning to make
much use of the instruction. This is the paradox of sense-making.



------------ 14.2. Writing topics

The right way to write topics is one at a time.

The best way to do this is to focus on the characteristics of Every
Page is Page One topics, which we covered in Part II, “Characteristics
of Every Page is Page One Topics”.

------ 14.2.1. Topics are self-contained

An EPPO topic is self-contained, which means writing an EPPO topic is
also self-contained, in the sense that when you are writing, you
should be focused on that topic and that topic alone.

There are a couple of reasons to avoid switching back and forth
between topics. The first is that switching tasks creates cognitive
overhead and makes it difficult to get into, and stay in, a state of
flow, which is necessary to effectively and efficiently complete an
intellectually demanding task.

The second reason is to avoid unconsciously thinking of the topic as
parts of a larger whole. Certainly you need to plan your topic set,
but when you are actually writing an Every Page is Page One topic, it
is best to approach it as an independent topic designed to fulfill a
specific purpose for a qualified reader.

To achieve this degree of independence, it is useful to create a
separate plan for each topic. Obviously, you don’t need to do an
extensive planning exercise for every topic. You need a plan that is
commensurate in scale to size of the task. But at the very least, your
plan should state the specific and limited purpose of the topic and
the topic type.


------ 14.2.2. Topics have a specific and limited purpose

If you can only keep one characteristic of EPPO design in mind as you
are writing, it should be this: define the specific and limited
purpose your topic is meant to serve. Remember that your topic is an
aid to the performance of a task and that a task is not simply a
procedure.

Often when we write, our minds become engaged with the implications
and side issues that arise from what we have just written, especially
if, as is often the case, the act of writing has caused us to realize
something new about the subject.

Of course, those ideas should not be lost.

They should be recorded and fed back into the topic creation pipeline.

The other virtue of explicitly stating the limits of the topic’s
purpose is that it helps you make sure you really do have a definite
purpose in mind. Sometimes what seems like a clear statement of
purpose can turn out to be amorphous and undefined when you set out to
execute it. Documenting the boundaries helps to ensure that there is
something real and concrete to define a boundary around.

Again, keep it simple and brief.


------ 14.2.3. Topics conform to a type

Working with a good set of type definitions can really help in
planning and executing a topic. A well-defined type will eliminate
most of the planning required for topics of that type. The topic type
is itself a plan for a topic of that type.

When writing a new topic, determine which of your established types
fits its defined purpose and follow it. If you find yourself wanting
to include material that does not fit the model, ask yourself the
following questions:

- Have I correctly defined and limited the purpose of this topic? (Chapter 8, EPPO Topics have a Specific and Limited Purpose)

- Have I correctly identified the topic type that supports that purpose? (Chapter 9, EPPO Topics Conform to a Type)

- Am I attempting to change levels within my topic because I fear the reader might not understand something? (Chapter 12, EPPO Topics Stay on One Level)

- Am I trying to fit the subject matter of two topics into one or divide the subject matter of one topic into two?

- Have I discovered a special, weird edge case? These do happen, and the best solution is often to write a generic, untyped topic to cover them rather than adding support for every edge case to the normal topic type. This keeps the normal topic type simple to understand, follow, and audit.

If you exhaust all those possibilities, record it as a bug in the
topic type definition. If your topic types are defined in a structured
writing system, use a generic topic type for your topic until the
topic type is fixed. Always note that you have deviated from the model
and why.

If you define the specific and limited purpose for your topic and then
find that there is no topic type defined for it, record the fact that
a new topic type is required and write your topic as a generic type,
trying as much as you can to develop a topic type as you go. The
material you create will be an important ingredient in the topic type
definition process for this new topic type.


------ 14.2.4. Topics establish their context

Your working assumption for every topic should be that readers will
arrive at the topic.. They will go straight to this topic without
reading anything else. This is their page one. Therefore the first
thing to do is to help them figure out if they are actually in the
right place. To do this, the topic needs to establish its context.

There is no guarantee that people will use your navigation. People are
increasingly search-dominant in their information seeking
behavior, so chances are they will arrive via search.

Your topic, therefore, must orient the reader, just as page one of any document must do.

Make your context-setting paragraph brief and succinct. Don’t fall
into the trap of thinking you have to explain all the subjects you
mention in the context-setting paragraph. Keep in mind the limits you
have defined for this topic. However, go ahead and link from those
subjects to topics that cover them.


------ 14.2.5. Topics assume the reader is qualified

A big part of defining topic types is determining who the qualified
reader is. Your topic type definition should tell you what
qualifications to assume, and you should think about who the qualified
reader is before you begin to write each topic.



------ 14.2.6. Topics stay on one level

Every Page is Page One, on the other hand, concedes that the process
of acquiring understanding is not one we can successfully model or
plan, and certainly not one we can generalize to an entire population
of readers. Readers will change levels when they are good and ready,
and thus EPPO topics do not attempt to impose level changes. They stay
on one level.

In a book, the author decides whether or not to change levels; in
EPPO, the author provides the means for readers to decide for
themselves. Such moments always occur at points of subject affinity.

The list of subject affinities collected while developing content is
invaluable to planning and managing your topic set.

 
------ 14.2.7. Topics link richly

Linking in an EPPO topic should not be done selectively or on a
hunch. It is fundamental to the bottom-up organization of topics and,
therefore, something that should be done systematically.

------------ 14.3. The question of style [?]

There is no micro-scale reason why the style of one EPPO topic in a
domain needs to be identical to the style of other EPPO topics in that
domain. Every page is page one, so there is no expectation of
continuity between one topic and the next.
 
In a survey: 43.41% of respondents chose a distinctive voice, even
over compelling and exclusive content. Now this is one small survey,
specific to blogs, but there are broader reasons to believe in the
power of a distinctive voice on the Web today.  Observations that the
Web gives us access to experience as well as authority and that we now
give our trust to our social networks more than to institutions
suggest that the bland and anonymous corporate tone may not be the
most appealing choice in every case.

Topics with a distinct style and tone often stand out and, therefore,
are more likely to be filtered into the set of topics a reader
chooses. This is even more so when the topic comes from an identified
person that the reader knows and trusts.

Put the author’s name and photo on each EPPO topic, and you will have
a much better foundation for building a community around your
documentation. Atlassian is an example of a company that puts the name
(though not photo) of the author on each documentation topic.

[.......?]

------------ 14.4. Concerning reference information

In an EPPO information set, references play a special role. Because
EPPO information sets are link-based, topics frequently have occasion
to link directly into references. A reference, then, is a rich link
target in an EPPO information set. The existence of a solid foundation
of reference content makes it easier for topics to stay on one level
and stick to their specific and limited purpose.

------------ 14.5. Concerning tutorials

A tutorial is systematic instruction, and, as has been demonstrated,
systematic instruction often does not work well. On the other hand
readers are not always realistic about what they want, and they often
ask for tutorials.

Are tutorials compatible with the Every Page is Page model?

If you have the more realistic expectation that readers will probably
only follow the tutorial for a few minutes before striking off on
their own, then the answer is yes.

EPPO tutorials should be written with the assumption that readers will
be qualified to take whichever tutorial they choose

As a practical matter, tutorials are often written in a sequence where
the output you create in performing one tutorial is the input you need
to do the next tutorial.

A tutorial topic, in other words, should be written like any EPPO
topic. It should be self-contained, have a specific and limited
purpose, conform to a type, stay on one level, assume the reader is
qualified, and link richly.

  
------------ 14.6. Concerning videos

Video is becoming an increasingly important part of technical
communications. It is often users who are taking the lead and
producing their own how-to videos on YouTube, but professional
technical communicators are catching on, too. How-to videos are almost
always Every Page is Page One in nature.

A good video always starts by establishing its context. In this
respect, videos sometimes have an advantage over text because they can
use multiple media to establish context.

One of the interesting properties of videos is that they are
significantly harder to edit than text.  Once a video is complete, it
is very unlikely that someone will come along later and make
significant revisions or add new material.

In an EPPO video, as in a written EPPO topic, it is best to stay on
one level and let the reader choose whether and when to change levels
by selecting a different topic or video.
 
------ 14.6.1. Videos and linking

One of the chief problem of video, as compared to text, is that there
is no good way to embed inline linking in a video. It is not
technically impossible to insert a link into a video, but it does not
work very well.

Therefore, when you use videos in your documentation, consider putting
them in a frame so you can include links to related subjects.

[.......?]

------ 14.6.2. Videos as topics

Since videos share so much in common with Every Page is Page One
topics, it makes sense to treat them as topics for purposes of
organization.

Because the means to view videos, particularly videos that rely on
sound, may not always be available, you may wish to provide an
alternative text topic covering the same material.

It makes better sense to provide a textual topic twin that is written
as an EPPO topic.

The text and video twin topics should be kept together as much as
possible.

Twinning text and video topics like this can go a long way to solving
the SEO and linking problems associated with video. It can also be an
answer for viewers/readers who get impatient because they can’t skip
and skim a video. They can switch to the textual twin if they get too
impatient to sit through the video to the end
  

------ 14.6.3. Videos as objects

If a video is not Every Page is Page One by itself, then it needs to
be embedded inside a regular EPPO topic (or a reference entry), just
like a picture or a drawing.



Chapter 15. Every Page is Page One Topics and the Big Picture
------------------------------------------------------------

Most people are not interested in sitting down and learning everything
before they do anything. Indeed, most would prefer to learn as much as
possible by doing, turning to documentation only when they are stuck
and have no other recourse.

 
------------ 15.1. Books and the big picture

Technical communications, in any case, is not a field where meaning
should be left to implication. If there is some information that the
reader needs, it should be explicitly stated, not implied by a TOC or
by the order of chapters.

------------ 15.2. The priority of the big picture

The Every Page is Page One approach also acknowledges that until
readers want the big picture, they won’t seek it out, and there is no
point trying to force it on them before they are ready.

We can harken back to the idea that the main task of documentation is
decision support, which we discussed in Chapter 8, EPPO Topics have a
Specific and Limited Purpose. We know that the odds of our users
reading the textbook explanation of the big picture is slight. But if
we document individual tasks with a decision support focus, the ways
in which the big picture affects the performance of those tasks will
always be present. And if the task topic is richly linked, as it
should be, it will link to the big-picture topic.

Few people start with the big picture. Without practical experience,
the big picture is an abstraction that it is difficult to fit into
one’s view of the problem space.

The desire for the big picture generally arises from the desire to
make sense of specific concrete experiences.

 

------------ 15.3. Writing the big-picture topic

The job of the big-picture topic is to give the big picture without
delving too deep into the details. It is not an overview of a book or
a curriculum, it is the 10,000-foot view of the subject. Like any EPPO
topic, it should be self-contained and stick to its level.

For an example of a good big-picture topic, check out “What Is Google
App Engine?” in the Google App Engine docs.

Whoever designed this article clearly knew minimalism because the Get
Started column is all about getting some initial experience. It
assumes that the desire for a big-picture topic will come later, when
the reader is ready for a deep dive into the subject, and that is
where it is placed.

Big picture topics tend to be long.

An EPPO big-picture topic won’t change level and, therefore, will make
it easier for readers to grasp the big picture whenever they are ready
for it.



------------ 15.4. Finding the end of the string

Getting the big picture of a complex product is not something that
happens in a few minutes of reading. We don’t learn that way. We build
up a big picture over time, through experience and exposure.

No matter how good your big-picture topic is, no reader is going to
read it through and immediately understand the big picture. As much as
anything, the role of the big-picture topic in a properly linked topic
set is navigational.

It helps users find the area of the product they need to focus on and
provides rapid access to the topics that describe that area.

What most users want is a way to get going. They don’t want the whole
big picture. They just want to find the door marked Enter. But each
user is looking for a different door.

**Because of this, the big-picture topic can play a second role, that of
being a room full of doors. In this case, even if a user doesn’t grasp
the entire big picture, the big-picture topic still provides the
context needed to select the right door.**

The words “Getting Started” are familiar and comforting to readers,
and that alone is justification for retaining those words,

A Getting Started topic should do what minimalism always prescribed,
which is to avoid artificial tutorials and get readers started on
real-world work as soon as possible.

  
------------ 15.5. Pathfinder topics

One step below the big picture – and in line with the idea that
different readers are looking to get started on their own projects,
not on toy learning projects – there is frequently a need for what I
call pathfinder topics.


A pathfinder topic shows the reader the overall path for accomplishing
some real goal with your product. It is not a beginner topic because
it does not assume that users want to do something very simple for
practice.

Instead, a pathfinder topic covers the full range of tasks and
features in a way that helps the user get a grip on how to attack a
problem. But it gives none of the details.

Pathfinder topics fit at a level below the big-picture topic and above
workflow or task topics.


A straight-up big-picture topic is certainly worth having, but the
real work of guiding users down the right path belongs to the
pathfinder topic.

For an example of a pathfinder topic, check out the WordPress Codex
topic titled “Photoblogs and Galleries.”

This topic is not a big-picture topic for WordPress as a whole. Nor
does it provide specific instructions on how to perform any particular
task. Rather, it addresses a fairly high-level subject: how to create
a Photoblog or Gallery.

It does so by walking the reader though the difference between a
photoblog and regular blogs (context setting) and then discusses the
various options and resources available.

Readers will have to read other topics to get specific directions on
using these tools (though they may just install them and learn by
trial and error).

But this topic helps readers understand what capabilities are
available and start choosing how to proceed. In other words, it sets
readers on the right path.

Chapter 16. Sequence of Tasks vs. Sequence of Topics
------------------------------------------------------------

One of the objections I often hear from writers is that Every Page is
Page One’s insistence on removing sequential dependencies makes it
difficult to create a defined order of topics, for example when a set
of topics forms a workflow. The question I ask in return is, if there
is a workflow here, shouldn’t you have a topic describing that
workflow explicitly? A workflow is too important to be expressed only
by the table of contents.

The Every Page is Page One solution to the sequence-of-tasks problem
is to write a single, separate workflow topic that captures the
overall sequence and points to the constituent tasks in the
appropriate order.

No matter the medium, a workflow should always be described in a topic
of its own. Since workflows generally consist of multiple tasks or
procedures, a workflow topic can refer to those tasks and procedures
and link to the topics that describe them.

Whenever information is implied – by a TOC, the order of chapters, or
any other mechanism – there is a danger that the writer won’t fully
understand the big picture. By requiring writers to fully document a
workflow that was formerly only implied, you may expose holes in their
understanding. (It is said with reason that you never really learn
something until you try to teach it.)


------------ 16.1. Working backwards

Sometimes readers begin a task without reading the documentation, get
stuck, and, only then, consult the documentation. Often, the reason
they are stuck is not related to the task they were working on when
they realized they were stuck, but to something they did earlier. At
that point, what they need to do is walk backwards, not just through
the content, but through the work they have been performing.

Have the topic provide the means to work backwards, particularly in the context-setting section.

By making a topic’s context navigable, you support this kind of
walking backwards through the subject matter.

Chapter 17. EPPO and Minimalism
------------------------------------ 

One of the foundational ideas of Every Page is Page One information
design comes directly from studies that led to the creation of
minimalism – observations that the systematic approach to instruction,
in which everything is laid out for the reader in systematic fashion –
simply does not work. People won’t follow the system.


------------ 17.1. EPPO as a platform for minimalism

Every Page is Page One is founded on the idea that people simply will
not read linearly or sequentially, a fact confirmed by any number of
studies of reader behavior on the Web,[30] as well as studies that
showed the same behavior with paper manuals.[31]

Every Page is Page One is designed to accommodate and facilitate this
non-linear reader behavior, rather than to resist or punish it.

- By making each topic self-contained, without reliance on previous or next topics, EPPO allows readers to choose any topic at any time.
- By having a specific and limited purpose, EPPO topics avoid extraneous material and focus on the reason readers came to them.
- By establishing their context, EPPO topics make it easy for readers to determine where they have arrived.
- By conforming to a type, EPPO topics make it easy for readers to skip and skim or hone in on one particular piece of data.
- By assuming readers are qualified, EPPO topics don’t waste time on introductions that readers are not interested in.
- By linking richly along lines of subject affinity, EPPO topics help readers jump around in the subject area and find the information they want next.


------------ 17.2. Is EPPO minimalist?

EPPO is not, in itself, minimalism and is open to the possibility that
minimalism might not always be appropriate.

However, EPPO does draw strong inspiration from the minimalism
experiments, and it does provide a good platform on which to create a
minimalist documentation set.

A key finding of the minimalism studies is that readers strike off on
their own paths through information rather than sticking to the path
created by the author.

A key principle of EPPO is to create content that facilitates, rather
than frustrates, readers in choosing their own paths.

The reader’s ability to immediately select the parts of a topic that
are of interest is enhanced when the different pieces of information
that make up a topic are clearly laid out and consistently related
with each other. Far from getting in the way, these characteristics of
an EPPO topic help readers locate and focus on the information they
are looking for.

A good EPPO topic is optimized for both micro-scale searching and for
narrative reading.
 
------------ 17.3. Minimal vs. comprehensive

There is a kind of paradox in the minimalist approach. It seeks to
free readers to strike their own path through the documentation, to
encourage experimentation, and support error recovery. Yet in being
less comprehensive, it runs the risk of not providing material that
readers on their own path may want or material necessary to support
error recognition and recovery.

As we will see in Chapter 22, Making the Case for Every Page is Page
One, a documentation set on the Web can look small on the outside
while being large, comprehensive, and highly navigable on the inside.

On the Web, or even in an EPPO help system, you can let learners
explore for themselves without paying the price of being less
comprehensive. And you can ensure that wherever their exploration
takes them, learners will have content there to support them when they
need it.

Chapter 18. Structured Writing
--------------------------

In Chapter 9, EPPO Topics Conform to a Type, I said a topic type defines three things: the content, the order, and the form of a topic. That is what structured writing is all about: capturing, guiding, and validating the content, order, and form of a piece of content.

 one hallmark of professionals is that they govern their own work by defining structure for themselves.

  True professionals are not self-indulgent, nor are they self-deluding. They know they are only human and that if they do not govern, discipline, and test their work against consistent, well-founded structures, they won’t produce work of consistent quality and utility.

  Therefore, structured writing is not the enemy of professional writers, but a natural and proper part of their professional tool chest.
  
 
------------ 18.1. The varieties of structured writing


There are many ways to specify the content, order, and form of information, and thus many forms of structured writing.

First, we need to distinguish two distinct but related types of structured writing, which I will call rhetorically structured writing and computably structured writing.

------ 18.1.1. Rhetorically structured writing

I will use the term rhetorically structured to mean systems and approaches that formally define how the content, order, and form of information are expressed in order to make that information easier to consume and understand. Examples of rhetorical structure include the following:

the traditional newspaper pyramid structure
the classic essay structure of introduction, body, and conclusion
the standard form of a recipe
the standard form of an API reference
Information Mapping, which sees an effective document as consisting of a collection of information blocks of defined types
The principle that an Every Page is Page One topic should begin by establishing its context is also an example of rhetorical structure.

Rhetorical structure includes rhetorical devices that apply broadly to many types of writing.

 As long as you follow a consistent rhetorical template, you are doing structured writing – rhetorically structured writing – and that’s a good thing.


------ 18.1.2. Computably structured writing

I will use the term computably structured to describe systems in which content is encoded in a machine-readable format so it can be processed in multiple ways after it is written. Computable structures also deal with the content, order, and form of information, but they vary greatly in how strictly or loosely they define those things.

Essentially, you are doing computably structured writing if you are aware of the structure, creating it deliberately, and specifying how it will be processed.

In technical communication, the most common way to create a data structure for content is with XML. Technical communicators use standard XML schemas like DocBook, DITA, or S1000D; industry vertical schemas; or custom schemas.

The data structures that you choose may or may not support or enforce a rhetorical structure. 

------ 18.1.3. A word about SPFE

I am working on a project I call the SPFE[34] architecture, which is a structured writing architecture designed specifically to support the creation and management of EPPO topics. 

------ 18.1.4. Other forms of computable structure

 Any format that captures the content, order, and form you need in a computable manner will work, and, often, non-XML formats will be easier for contributors to learn and use.

------ 18.1.5. Open and closed formats

Figure 18.2, “Structure matrix” shows some of the various forms of structured writing, both rhetorically structured and computably structured.

.....

------ 18.1.6. The varieties of computable structures

XML: The XML tags divide the content into distinct elements ,  This enables you to process the content in ways that are specific to movie reviews.

html: There is no way a program could pull a list of the titles of all the reviewed movies in a collection based on this markup because the collection does not contain the necessary subject-specific markup.

DocBook is a little more specific about the document structure.  (This book was written in DocBook.)



HTML5 adds some basic document structured markup to HTML, including tags like article and section, bringing it slightly closer to what DocBook provides, though DocBook remains far richer in document semantics.

Markdown is a simplified language for writing Web pages using markup inspired by the way people format plain text email. See http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/.



------------ 18.2. Benefits of computably structured writing

Structured writing, especially computably structured writing, provides a variety of benefits, some of which depend on the format. 

------ 18.2.1. Improved content quality

The first and most important reason to adopt structured writing is to improve the quality of your content. Defining firm rhetorical structures for all your content can help ensure that content is complete, consistent, and navigable.


------ 18.2.2. Guidance for writers

Writing remains a craft. It relies on the experienced touch of the individual writer to say the right thing and to say it well. But like professionals in other crafts, writers can improve the quality and consistency of their work by using guides and templates.


------ 18.2.3. Conformance and quality

When people make the case for investment in technical communication, they often point to technical communication problems that have contributed to notable accidents. Using a schema that requires each component to be present helps prevent errors and omissions that could lead to user frustration (at least) or catastrophic loss (at worst).

By enforcing your schema in your authoring tools, you give writers and editors direct, immediate feedback, which can help them become more productive, both in terms of the speed and the quality of their work.



------ 18.2.4. Linking

Every Page is Page One topics link richly along lines of subject affinity. You can use structured markup to capture subject affinities in your content and use them to generate linking automatically. 

------ 18.2.5. Content manipulation

Computably structured content lets you treat your content like a database and write query expressions against it. Thus you could run queries such as: show me all the movie reviews that mention both John Wayne and Howard Hawkes, or give me a list of all the API routines that take or return a config record data structure.

------ 18.2.6. Future proofing

You can always translate your content from an older format to a newer one. The real question is, will the content have the structure you will need in the future?

What you really should care about for future proofing are the following two things:

- Semantics:  In general, the more semantic information your content contains, the easier it will be to translate it into a future format.

Medium: The nature of your current output medium will affect how easy your content is to work with in the future.  Even if you are not delivering to the Web today, creating EPPO topics rather than writing linear books is the best way to future proof your information.

------ 18.2.7. Single sourcing

One of the most common phrases used to describe structured writing is “separation of content from format.” This refers to the ability to create content once, in a format-independent way, and then generate output to various media by adding formatting appropriate to each medium.

However, separating content from formatting is not enough to enable you to organize content differently for different media.

More than formatting separates the linear organization of a book from the random-access structure of the Web.

Separating content from formatting is not enough to change top-down organization to bottom-up organization.



------ 18.2.8. Reuse

reuse looks at outputting one piece of content to multiple publications or displaying it in multiple contexts.

------ 18.2.9. Content exchange

If you want to exchange content with other people, you need to deliver it in a format they can process.

 You can always exchange content (or data) if the other party’s data has the same semantics as yours (regardless of syntax) or if your content is semantically up hill from their content. That is, you can exchange content if the semantics of your content can be transformed into the semantics of their content without loss. This can happen if your content semantics are richer than theirs, but not if they are poorer.

 Of course, creating subject-specific markup has its costs as well, so you have to weigh the costs and benefits. But the conformance and quality advantages are compelling, especially for Every Page is Page One topics, which work best when written to a well-defined structure.

 
------------ 18.3. Structured writing and bottom-up organization

While bottom-up organization and navigation and irregular subject affinities can be difficult to manage by hand, they can be managed effectively by an algorithm. But for the algorithm to work, it needs computably structured content. Computably structured writing can be a big help in organizing content from the bottom up.




Chapter 19. Metadata
------------------------------------

 Metadata is used in many ways for many purposes, but often people see metadata in just one role – as the information attached to a document or a web page to help people find it.

  if you use an authoring method from the Open Format side of the matrix, you will be creating a lot more metadata, and most, and possibly all, of the metadata will be created before or during the authoring of the content,

 To put it simply structure is defined by metadata. But the metadata that defines structure is not on the outside of the content, like the label on a pasta jar, it is inside the content, labeling its individual parts and pieces.

 
  

------------ 19.1. The meaning of metadata

Metadata is simply information about data or, to put it another way, data that describes other data.

Metadata is ubiquitous. Indeed, most data is useless without metadata to tell us what it means. And because metadata is also data, we need metadata to tell us what the metadata means.

Not all forms of metadata are referred to as metadata. Many forms of metadata have their own long-standing names: index, schema, data dictionary, table of contents, catalog, tag, label, and so forth.

 metadata can refer to a bunch of things that are all called metadata and to a bunch more things that are not commonly called metadata, but which still are metadata.

 
------------ 19.2. Topics should merit their metadata
 the secret to making information findable is not organization, but metadata. In other words, as we saw in Chapter 3, The Distributed Nature of Content on the Web, web pages are organized dynamically by the Web itself, and the thing that makes it possible for the Web to filter content accurately is metadata (both the metadata authors create while writing the content and the metadata readers create by tagging, liking, or linking to the content).
  The Web is driven by metadata.



  It is not hard to add metadata, but it is hard to add good metadata. If your content is going to get filtered in when and where it should be, its metadata has to accurately reflect the topic.

  You cannot attach more metadata to an object than that object’s intrinsic properties deserve, at least, not if you want a reliable result. If the pieces you are labeling are too small or if their boundaries are poorly defined, the metadata will not fit properly.

 Useful content metadata can only be applied to useful units of content. Break content down into chunks that are smaller than is useful to a reader and you cannot attach metadata to it that will be useful to the reader.

 The qualities a piece of useful content must have to merit its metadata turn out to be the same qualities that EPPO topics have.

Self-contained: To be labeled accurately, an object must be self-contained. If it is a component of something larger, the topic label belongs on the larger object.
Specific and limited purpose: Metadata is essentially a description of what a piece of data does. If the purpose of the content is not specific, there is no way to attach specific metadata to it. If the purpose is not limited, the metadata required cannot be limited either, and unlimited metadata is as bad as no metadata.
Conform to type: A well-defined content type defines every aspect of a piece of content, and metadata labels each aspect of the content. If the aspects of the content are not consistent, the metadata cannot be consistent. And inconsistent metadata is of little use. If you can’t rely on the metadata, you can’t use it to find, create, manage, or maintain content.
Establish context: When a topic explicitly establishes its context for the reader, it confirms that the metadata for the topic is correct. Showing the metadata as part of the topic, as we saw in the Blue-footed Booby topic in All About Birds (see Figure 10.4, “Blue-Footed Booby”), is one of the most useful ways to establish context.
Assume the reader is qualified:  Every topic is written for someone. The metadata should identify the audience, either explicitly or by implication. If the topic does not stick to what is stated or implied, it does not merit the metadata.
Stay on one level: As with reader qualification, the metadata should identify the level, either explicitly or implicitly. If the topic does not stick to that level, it does not merit the metadata.

the metadata that is appropriate for labeling your reusable content chunks is not the metadata that applies to an EPPO topic built from them.



------------ 19.3. Metadata comes first

To create content that truly merits its metadata, the best thing to do is to start with the metadata first. That is, define the metadata up front – all of it – and then write a topic that merits that metadata.

In fact, this would make an excellent definition of structured writing, whether we are talking about rhetorically structured, computably structured, or both: when you do structured writing, create the metadata first and the content afterwards.



This approach is similar to the test-driven development practice that is part of agile software development.

In many ways, the metadata for a topic is a test for the topic’s content.

The first and most important piece of metadata about an EPPO topic is its type. The most elementary part of defining the metadata first is to choose the topic type before you start writing.



Chapter 20. Linking
------------------------

Linking is an important aspect of Every Page is Page One topic design.


------------ 20.1. Crowdsourced links

Crowdsourced links are generated by the community rather than by authors and editors.

I would love to hear from you if you have made crowdsourced linking work in your organization.


------------ 20.2. Soft linking based on subject affinities

 Soft linking is a technique in which links are generated automatically based on subject affinities recorded in structured data.

 Soft linking is not difficult to implement. The secret is to have content that properly identifies and fulfills its purpose so the system can form useful links to the right content.



 links in Every Page is Page One topics are not usually used to make explicit references to particular documents. They are mostly used to provide access to related content along lines of subject affinity.

 Here are some advantages to not requiring authors to identify particular resources:

- It saves time. If all authors have to do is note that a particular string has a subject affinity, they can work much more quickly than if they have to stop and identify a resource to link to.

- While you’re developing an information set, the resources you might want to create links to may not exist yet. But even if you can’t create a hard link to a resource that does not exist, you can note an affinity to the subject.

- Relying on authors to find resources to link to can result in inconsistent linking.
Author behavior, like that of readers, tends to be satisficing. Authors generally won’t keep looking for the best link target once they have one that seems good enough. They will pick the first “good enough” target they find, resulting in a topic set full of “good enough,” rather than excellent, links.


- If you reuse content in different information products, you may find that trying to reuse a topic that contains hard-coded links will result in broken links because the target topics don’t get included in the new information set.
If you simply note the subject affinities, the soft links can be resolved at build time to point to available resources in the current information set.

Soft linking based on subject affinities does not require XML. Any data format that allows you to highlight subject affinities in a computable manner can be used.

------ 20.2.1. Soft linking is not indirection

What follows is the most technical thing in this whole book. I include it because it is important not to confuse soft linking with another technique known as indirection. Both techniques are useful – and each has pluses and minuses – but they are different, and you can miss the true power of soft linking if you confuse it with indirection.


------------ 20.3. Soft linking and list generation

One of the things you may have realized about the soft-linking approach is that when you run a query on a particular subject expressed by subject-affinity markup, you may get more than one result. Since conventional Web links only point to one page, what do you do when you get multiple results?

one way to deal with multiple resources is to create a list of links on the page.

 you might prefer to have the list presented as a pop-up of some kind,
 
A third option is to create separate list pages. 



Chapter 21. Reuse
------------------------

Reuse is the hot topic in content strategy and technical communications today. So how does writing and managing Every Page is Page One topics fit with reuse?

To accomplish this, companies will often break down content into very small pieces, the building-block topics we talked about in Chapter 6, What is a Topic?.

These building blocks are often smaller than Every Page is Page One topics, so if you want to make Every Page is Page One topics from building blocks, you need to plan in advance.


------------ 21.1. Reuse on the Web
Placing the same content in many publications can present a problem in the Web world. One of the key things to remember about the Web, or even your own help system, is that it is a flat information space. Duplication makes sense in the paper world, because each paper document lives in its own little valley with steep mountains between it and the next document

The Web is not a valley. It is one vast flat plain. By default, any search searches the whole thing.

the bottom line is, duplicate and near-duplicate content is bad for SEO (Search Engine Optimization). At least some of your duplicate content won’t show up in search, and duplication may prevent search engines from thoroughly indexing your site.[40]

“assume your information will be used out of context,” “modularize your information,” and “use specific language,” all things that a good EPPO topic should do.

the emphasis in the paper world is on authors reusing content themselves (usually by hand) to create multiple static publications, on the Web, the emphasis is on enabling readers to reuse content dynamically for themselves using automated means.



------------ 21.2. Static vs. dynamic reuse

 With static reuse, you create a piece of content once and then assign it one or more distinct roles.

 Dynamic reuse, on the other hand, is more like creating a single piece of content to play a single role that allows it to appear in multiple places.


------------ 21.3. Other forms of reuse

There are other forms of reuse besides deploying topics to more than one publication. Variable substitution, similar to that used in a mail-merge application, can be used to produce different variations of a topic.

Conditional text markers can be used to hide or reveal different pieces of text within a topic based on certain conditions.


------------ 21.4. Reuse, linking, and interactive pages

As noted above, linking can be an alternative to reuse.

In EPPO, you could handle the same situation by writing multiple workflow topics, each of which linked to the specific task or procedure topics.

with interactive content, if you are reading a workflow topic and you click on the link to a specific task or procedure, the link might result in the task or procedure being shown inline rather than by moving you to a new page.

Chapter 22. Making the Case for Every Page is Page One
------------------------------------------------------

Throughout this book, I have been making the case that Every Page is Page One is the right information design pattern for most technical communication applications. The heart of that argument is that people learn through experience and through information acquired in the context of experience, and that they want short pieces of content that serve their specific purpose.

This has always been the case, and the systematic textbook model has never been the right one for technical communication. But the advent of the Web has made the need for an Every Page is Page One information design more acute by reducing the distance between information sources to zero and allowing information foragers to move effortlessly from one information source to another.


------------ 22.1. EPPO and resource constraints

Technical communicators need to find ways to work more efficiently.

Producing nearly any complex product in small units is more efficient than producing it in large units, largely because small units are easier to create, errors are found sooner, and production can flow more evenly.[

Reuse may provide further savings

By allowing you to work in smaller units, EPPO allows you to turn content around more quickly

etc.

------------ 22.2. EPPO and continuous delivery

Much of the useful information about how to use, connect, troubleshoot, and fix a product is developed after the product is released.

This has become even more true in the age of the Web.

More than ever, the issues that people struggle with are not, “how do I make this program or device work by itself,” but “how do I get it to talk to everything else.”

Traditionally, technical publications have provided only information that was available before the product was released.

Multiple factors make this deliver-once-at-release-time model nonviable:

- Customer expectations are now driven by the Web. Customers expect documentation to always be up to date with the latest known information, and they see no reason why they should have to look in two unconnected sources (the documentation and the knowledge base) for information about the same product.

- Software products (and hardware products such as phones and tablets that are largely animated by software) are increasingly moving away from the major release model towards a more continuous roll out of features. Information needs to be updated on the same schedule.

- The growth of software as a service means companies can roll out new services as soon as they are ready. Again, information delivery has to keep pace.

  For any of these types of continuous delivery, Every Page is Page One topics are ideal.

   Because Every Page is Page One topics have no sequential dependencies, they are essentially plug and play. You can add and remove topics from the content set at any time without disrupting anything.
   
**(You will, of course, need to manage link dependencies when you do this.)**
   
  Every Page is Page One handles continuous delivery better than building-block approaches, which require you to assemble and sequence building blocks into larger and/or hierarchical information products for each delivery.

------------ 22.3. EPPO and content change

Keeping up with changes is an ongoing problem for technical communicators. This is not just the problem of updating content from release to release. Most product documentation was originally designed for version 1.0 of the product, when it was fairly small and simple. But products grow over time. New features are added, and the product is adapted to fit new uses.

Technical writers rarely have the time and opportunity to design a book with a mature holistic view of the subject matter. Even if you own the whole book and start from scratch, as opposed to updating an existing book, you are always documenting a moving target against an unreasonable deadline. This is not a work environment that is conducive to creating a brilliantly designed curriculum.

with Every Page is Page One topics you are always working with a manageable unit. There may not be time in the cycle to fix all the topics, but there is always time to fix the topic you are working on.

You can keep individual topics in good shape, and if you get a spare day or a spare week, you can make progress on the backlog of topics that need fixing. Working topics will allow you to make steady progress on improving the quality and organization of your content.



------------ 22.4. EPPO and content aging

One of the biggest content management problems for documentation sets and websites alike is content aging.

However, removing obsolete content is not simple. 

Every Page is Page One information design helps alleviate this problem by reducing or eliminating the tangles between old and new content. Of course, an Every Page is Page One topic does link richly to other topics and other topics link to it, and these tangles have to be dealt with. But if your linking strategy is based on subject affinities and soft links, the links between topics do not create hard dependencies.

. If you use the soft-linking technique described in Chapter 20, Linking, this will happen automatically, and you can simply remove the obsolete topic without worrying about the tangles.

Another aspect of content aging is identifying topics that are obsolete. Fundamentally this depends on the metadata attached to a topic when it is authored. Metadata should include the information needed to implement an appropriate content aging strategy.

Every Page is Page One does not make any special contribution to defining and managing such metadata. However, Every Page is Page One does help ensure that topics fully merit the metadata that is applied to them (Chapter 19, Metadata), which means that you can rely on the metadata with greater confidence when implementing an aging strategy.

------------ 22.5. EPPO and agile methodologies

The adoption of agile methodologies by software development organizations has been challenging for many technical communication organizations.

Organizations that use agile processes should be making frequent deliveries to customers to get the feedback necessary to guide product development.

Instead of trying to adopt the development group’s agile process, I suggest that technical communication groups should look into developing their own lean[45] development process and integrating it with the development group’s agile process.

In an agile process, you can deliver EPPO topics to each sprint without having to worry about how they will fit into a larger structure.

And if additional documentation requirements emerge after release, you can add EPPO topics to the documentation set without the need to restructure or reissue it.

One of the features of Agile development is that you do not spell out every detail of the design before development begins.

Instead, the development process is designed to flush out user needs by giving both the development team and customers experience with working prototypes.

This same process of deliberate discovery of requirements through the development process applies to technical communication as well (and is why you should deliver to customers on a regular basis, just as development does). This means you will be working without a complete, detailed documentation plan (there’s no complete, detailed product plan to base it on anyway).

Because Every Page is Page One topics are, ideally, organized bottom up, managing subject affinities is an important part of developing EPPO content. Once you start managing subject affinities, you will quickly discover how powerful an aid they are to planning content requirements and to maintaining and developing a content plan through an agile development process.



------------ 22.6. EPPO and content management

You can start creating Every Page is Page One content with your current tools today, without spending a cent on new systems or interrupting your current workflow. You can do it using the word processor, desktop publishing system, help authoring tool, wiki, or Web CMS you use today.



At the same time, every tool has an inherent bias towards a particular kind of information design.

if you are planning to move to EPPO information design or are planning to move to Web delivery, don’t buy new tools before you have a new information design and delivery method firmly in mind.


------------ 22.7. EPPO and PDF/help

Even if you don’t have legal reasons to continue to provide PDF files, it’s the height of hubris (and stupidity) to assume your customers will immediately accept content distributed in new ways. Instead, be smart by offering your customers choices in how they consume content.

At the same time, it is worth investigating seriously whether the demand for PDF is real or not.

 	
We know that people will tell you that they prefer PDF.

a study of those customers who said they preferred PDF, when they offered them both PDF and HTML-based topic-based assistance online they found that even the people who said they preferred PDF all actually selected the topics and the HTML output at a ratio of 26 to 1. So lots of times when you get that feedback that people prefer PDF, it is mostly because it is the only thing that people know to tell you.

We are not always great analysts of our own preferences and behavior patterns, and sometimes we ask for the conventional thing with the familiar name rather than the thing that actually works best for us. As Steve Jobs famously said, “It’s really hard to design products by focus groups. A lot of times, people don’t know what they want until you show it to them.”

the upcoming generation is unlikely to take any comfort in the structure of a book.

That is essentially all there is to making a manual out of Every Page is Page One topics. Choose a set of topics to include, figure out which aspects of their subjects make the most sense as static groupings, and create a table of contents.

Avoid the temptation to add linking text or string the EPPO topics into a narrative. It isn’t necessary. Few, if any, will read the book through

 EPPO topics can also be assembled into a hierarchical help system.
 

------------ 22.8. EPPO and content marketing

Is putting technical content on the Web going to make your product look more or less attractive? Two things are pretty clear.

You don’t want the technical content to get in the way of visitors accomplishing their tasks, including buying stuff.
You don’t want to make your company’s product look hard to use, which is exactly what you are doing if you show them something like Figure 22.1, “Big docs make products look hard to use”:

Putting up a traditional help system, with a table of contents on every page, rubs the user’s nose in just how big the documentation set is. While there are a few people who revel in this kind of thing, by and large it is a big turn off.

Bottom-up navigation never overwhelms readers with how big the information set is, it just makes it easy to navigate along any line of subject affinity.

Clutter is not a product of the amount of content on your site. Wikipedia is not cluttered nor is Amazon. Clutter is a matter of how much the content gets in the way of users instead of facilitating their path to the information they want.


Wikipedia has that small and simple feel on every page even though it is actually mammoth. And, despite being mammoth, it is easy to move around in. So is Amazon. So is YouTube. Why? Because they all use bottom-up navigation and because every page is a hub of its immediate area in subject space.

Adopting Every Page is Page One information design will allow you to create a mammoth documentation set that feels small, safe, and comfortable.




------------ 22.9. EPPO and DITA

EPPO and DITA are orthogonal to each other. EPPO is an information design pattern. DITA is, in the words of one of its creators, Don Day, “basically just a generic but extensible markup standard.”

------------ 22.10. EPPO and wikis

Wikis are a natural Every Page is Page One medium. Wikipedia, which is a poster child for the Every Page is Page One design pattern, illustrates how well the form fits the medium.

If you have decided to move to an EPPO information design then a wiki
is an excellent tool choice if you do not want to go down the
structured writing route.



------------ 22.11. Making the case for technical communication on the Web

This section provides suggestions on how you can make the case for putting your technical communications on the Web and how you can answer some of the objections you may face.

 But technical communication groups often meet other objections when they try to move their content to the web. The potential objections from the marketing department have been noted above, and I have discussed how an Every Page is Page One approach can help alleviate those concerns. Here are some other objections and ways to handle them.

 

------ 22.11.1. Competitors will steal our ideas

 Some companies fear that if they put their documentation on the Web, their competitors will copy their products. Here are some ways to answer this objection.

- First, make sure the people you are talking with understand what you mean by documentation. If they think you mean engineering drawings or product specifications, then of course they don’t want them on the Web. Explain that you are talking about end-user documentation, which, in most cases, is not supposed to contain trade secrets.


- Second, ask what it would take for a competitor to get hold of your documentation today. In most cases, it would be trivially easy.
  
- Show them what results come up today when people do a Web search for help with your product.
  
- Make a list of leading companies that have their documentation on the web.
  


------ 22.11.2. Our users prefer PDF

If it comes from a sincere belief that users want PDFs, then Section 22.7, “EPPO and PDF/help” provides some answers. 

------ 22.11.3. No one reads the documentation anyway

If by “reads the documentation,” they mean sits down and reads the manual like a novel, then this objection is entirely true. 

But people do read documentation – or, at least, technical information – when they get stuck and need help.

People seek out and read technical information when they have a specific problem and need help.

The status quo in information design and information delivery is not a viable place to remain. We live in a world were every page is page one. It is no exaggeration to say that we must adapt or die.


Chapter 23. Afterword: EPPO, but Not for Everything
----------------------------------------------------

EPPO is not for everything.


There is a difference between documenting a product and documenting an idea.

 if you write an EPPO topic incorrectly, your authoring application is not going to beep and display an error message

 Part of what I have tried to do in Part II, “Characteristics of Every Page is Page One Topics” is to provide a set of reasonably concrete benchmarks to evaluate your EPPO topics against. But all of these measurements are, to one extent or another, judgment calls. Your experience, and the feedback you get from your readers, will help hone your judgment in these matters, but you need a fair amount of theoretical grounding just to get to that point.

 This is the sort of thing that people need a book for. It is why John Carroll wrote a book about how learners don’t read books. It is why David Weinberger wrote two books about why the book is an inadequate vessel for knowledge. It is why I wrote this book about how to stop writing books and start writing Every Page is Page One topics. It is why you should still write a book too, if you are dealing with this kind of subject matter.

 But technical communication, product documentation in particular, is not usually this kind of subject matter.

  if professional technical communicators want to remain relevant in this world, they need to create more Every Page is Page One topics and fewer books and manuals.

  
